# 01 hello, welcome to the server, you're probably using ssh 

Hello and welcome to this server (no name yet).

If you're here and reading this you're probably using ssh, but just in case you have amnesia or some sort of memento condition, here's what's happened so far 

## SSH 

SSH, or secure shell is how you got here, now this server does not allow password authentication. How you got here should be by using an rsa key pair, usually can be generated by typing this into your terminal: 

```
ssh keygen
```

this will create 2 files, which by default are `id_rsa` and `id_rsa.pub` in your `~/.ssh` file (I am assuming you are using a Linux distro. If not then look up how to generate the keys on PuTTY. The principles between public and private rsa keys should be the same though). The `id_rsa` file is the private key, of which you keep and the `id_rsa.pub` is the public key of which you sent (hopefully) to me, which I've put inside the `~.ssh/authorized_keys` inside your home file on this machine. 

While this is good for security, this means you won't be able to access the server from say a public computer like one inside a library or something. However, adding a second or third computer shouldn't be hard. 


## Authorizing a computer to connect to the server 

If you're looking to connect to the server using a new computer, just make a new pair of rsa keys, send your public key over to the server and append it to your `~/.ssh/authorized_keys`

```
cat /path/to/public/key >> ~/.ssh/authorized_keys
```

**NOTE** keys should only take up 1 line in the authorized_keys file

## Multiple terminals? (keep a process running while I'm gone?)

just use tmux. 
+ for starting tmux: type in `tmux`, dipshit. 
+ sessions: A new session in tmux is more or less like a new desktop in windows (if you're familiar with that). Basically it's a work environment. They're useful when you need to have processes run in the background, when you log out or if you're just a neat freak. Here's how to manage them: 
	+ for a new session `<prefix>:new -s session_name`
	+ to use an existing session `<prefix>:attach -t session_name`
	+ see what sessions are running `<prefix>:ls`
	+ exit the current session `<prefix>:detach`
+ tabs: A tab is similar to web browser tabs, but for some reason, tmux calls it windows. 
	+ for a new window `<prefix>:new-window` or `<prefix> c`
	+ to select window `<prefix>:select-window -t :0-9` or `<prefix> 0-9`
	+ to remane window `<prefix>:rename-window` or `<prefix> ,`
+ panes: This is for if you want 2 terminals side by side, making it look like you're a [ma5t3r haxx0r][reddit.com/r/masterhacker] (but seriously though, panes are useful and if you're looking for a good top post subreddit binge, the link is a good one)
	+ split vertically `<prefix> "`
	+ split horizontally `<prefix> %`
	+ select pane `<prefix> up/down/left/right`

# 02 basic rules for using git here 

If you're absolutely new to git, I'd recommend *Starting out*. If not then you should head straight to *How to properly use git* 

## Starting out 

You should know how to use git, if you don't, here's the primer 
first things first when you get git: 

```
git config --global user.name "Mona Lisa"
git config --global user.email mona.lisa@florence.art.it
```

Do this when you get your account on this server. 
Now to start a repo. Usually `git clone` will be enough: 

```
git clone https://github/path/to/repo.git
```

This should be good enough if you're just playing around or working on some open-source project. 
If you want to initialize the git repo and an existing directory: 

```
cd /path/to/directory 
git init 
git remote add origin https://url.to/repo.git
```

Sometimes (for instance this server) the .git repository is located through ssh, in which case: 

```
git remote add origin user@server:/path/to/repo.git
```

## How to properly use git (or at least in a group)

I've seen too many CompSci students use git the wrong way, or technically not the wrong way but not an efficient way that allows for multiple users to do work on a single project. So here I'm going to explain how to properly use git so that others can too: 

you're usually used to only having 1 branch, (master) and git push and git pull from just that branch but what you should instead do is make your own local branch, which we'll call `developing`. This is to keep track of what is being changed on your machine (the developing branch) and what's being changed on the group's collective repo (the master branch).

To add the branch (and switch to that branch too): 

```
git branch developing 
git checkout developing 
```

Here's where you work as usual, with git add and git commit. Remember to commit. 

```
git add 
git commit -m "a commit message should tell the group what you added"
git status 				# check what files you've added and what commits are waiting to be pushed
```

Now once you're done with what you wanted to add, you need to update your master branch, the branch that you're using to keep track of the remote repository: 

```
git checkout master 	# This switches us over to the local master branch 
git pull origin master	# This updates our local master branch to match the remote master branch
git merge developing	# This merges our newly updated local master with our developing branch 
						# Usually this is where you'll find merge conflicts, in which you have to resolve
git push origin master	# git push
						# NOTE: it's recommended you specify the branch you push to, dont just git push
```

for navigating the tree of versions, use `git reset`. This will move you back (or forth?) to certain commits should you need it: 

```
git reset --hard <SOME_COMMIT>
```

NOTE: use git reset with care, as it will throw away any commits you haven't pushed. If you need to check just use `git status`

## further thoughts on git 

This is a relatively simple example of how to use git, as bigger projects can have multiple remote branches and you can end up with multiple local branches. But this does give you an idea of how git is meant to be used. 

some more git commands that might be useful: 

```
git fetch <remote> <branch>
```

Same as `git pull`, but while `git pull` attempts to merge your branches right away, `fetch` only downloads the commits and files of another repo and allows you to inspect them before merging 

```
git remote add <name> <url>
```

This adds a remote repository that you can reference. 

```
git branch -r
git branch -l
```

This will list what branches exist, `-l` gives you **local** branches and `-r` gives you **remote** branches. 

```
git diff # this command is incomplete
```

Running `git diff` shows you the differences between 2 branches. 

# 03 what the /home/git directory is for and if you want a private repo 

